Add WIF documentation for GCP Auth and Secrets engines (#27170)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/auth/gcp.mdx

   environment, you will additionally need to configure your environment’s custom endpoints
   via the [custom_endpoint](/vault/api-docs/auth/gcp#custom_endpoint) configuration parameter.

   In some cases, you cannot set sensitive IAM security credentials in your
   Vault configuration. For example, your organization may require that all
   security credentials are short-lived or explicitly tied to a machine identity.

   To provide IAM security credentials to Vault, we recommend using Vault
   [plugin workload identity federation](#plugin-workload-identity-federation-wif)
   (WIF) as shown below.

1. Alternatively configure the audience claim value and the service account email to assume for plugin workload identity federation:

   ```text
    $ vault write auth/gcp/config \
        identity_token_audience="<TOKEN AUDIENCE>" \
        service_account_email="<SERVICE ACCOUNT EMAIL>"
   ```

>    Vault's identity token provider will internally sign the plugin identity token JWT.
>    Given a trust relationship is configured between Vault and GCP via
>    Web Identity Federation, the auth engine can exchange this identity token to obtain
>    [federated access tokens](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/token-types#access).
> 
>    ~> **Notice:** For this trust relationship to be established, GCP must have
>    a [Workload Identity Pool and Provider](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/manage-workload-identity-pools-providers)
>    configured with information about the fully qualified and network-reachable
>    Issuer URL for Vault's plugin [identity token provider](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-well-known-configurations).
>    This is to ensure that GCP can fetch the JWKS [public keys](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-active-public-keys)
>    and verify the plugin identity token signature. To configure Vault's Issuer,
>    please refer to the Identity Tokens
>    [documentation](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#configure-the-identity-tokens-backend)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Vault's identity token provider signs the plugin identity token JWT internally.
   If a trust relationship exists between Vault and GCP through WIF, the auth
   engine can exchange the Vault identity token for a
   [federated access token](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/token-types#access).
     
   To configure a trusted relationship between Vault and GCP:

      - You must configure the [identity token issuer backend](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#configure-the-identity-tokens-backend)
        for Vault.

      - GCP must have a
        [workload identity pool and provider](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/manage-workload-identity-pools-providers)
        configured with information about the fully qualified and network-reachable
        issuer URL for the Vault plugin
        [identity token provider](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-well-known-configurations).

   Establishing a trusted relationship between Vault and GCP ensures that GCP
   can fetch JWKS
   [public keys](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-active-public-keys)
   and verify the plugin identity token signature.
```

See [Managing service account impersonation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/impersonating-service-accounts)
for more information.

## Plugin Workload Identity Federation (WIF)

<EnterpriseAlert product="vault" />

> The GCP auth engine supports the Plugin WIF workflow, and has a source of identity called
> a plugin identity token. The plugin identity token is a JWT that is internally signed by Vault's
> [plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GCP auth engine supports the plugin WIF workflow and a source of identity
called a plugin identity token. A plugin identity token is a JWT that is signed
internally by the Vault [plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration).
```

If there is a trust relationship configured between Vault and GCP through

> [Workload Identity Federation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[workload identity federation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation),
```
Style correction: reserve capitalization for product names

the auth engine can exchange its identity token for short-lived access tokens needed to
perform its actions.

Exchanging identity tokens for access tokens lets the GCP auth engine
operate without configuring explicit access to sensitive IAM security
credentials.

To configure the auth engine to use plugin WIF:

1. Ensure that Vault [openid-configuration](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-token-issuer-s-openid-configuration)
and [public JWKS](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-token-issuer-s-public-jwks)
APIs are network-reachable by GCP. We recommend using an API proxy or gateway
if you need to limit Vault API exposure.

1. Create a

>     [Workload Identity Pool and Provider](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#create-pool-provider)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [workload identity pool and provider](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#create-pool-provider)
```

    in GCP.
    1. The provider URL **must** point at your [Vault plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration) with the
    `/.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix removed. For example:
    `https://host:port/v1/identity/oidc/plugins`.

>     1. The audience should uniquely identify the recipient of the plugin identity
>     token. This can be the [default audience](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#prepare)
>     for the Identity Pool or a custom value less than 256 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Uniquely identify the recipient of the plugin identity token as the audience.
       You can use the [default audience](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#prepare)
       for the identity pool or a custom value less than 256 characters.
```
Style correction: write in active voice

1. [Authenticate a workload](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#authenticate)
in GCP by granting the Identity Pool access to a dedicated service account using service account impersonation.

> To allow the GCP Auth engine to impersonate the service account, filter using the the unique `sub` claim issued by plugin identity tokens.
> This will be of the form `plugin-identity:<NAMESPACE>:auth:<GCP_AUTH_MOUNT_ACCESSOR>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter requests using the unique `sub` claim issued by plugin identity tokens
so the GCP Auth engine can impersonate the service account. `sub` claims
have the form: `plugin-identity:<NAMESPACE>:auth:<GCP_AUTH_MOUNT_ACCESSOR>`.
```

See [Managing service account impersonation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/impersonating-service-accounts)
for more information.

## Plugin Workload Identity Federation (WIF)

<EnterpriseAlert product="vault" />

> The GCP auth engine supports the plugin WIF workflow and has a source of identity called

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we use "auth **method**" instead of "auth **engine**" for consistency?

```suggestion
The GCP auth method supports the plugin WIF workflow and has a source of identity called
```

    in GCP.
    1. The provider URL **must** point at your [Vault plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration) with the
    `/.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix removed. For example:
    `https://host:port/v1/identity/oidc/plugins`.
    1. Uniquely identify the recipient of the plugin identity token as the audience.
    You can use the [default audience](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#prepare)
    for the identity pool or a custom value less than 256 characters.

1. [Authenticate a workload](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#authenticate)
in GCP by granting the identity pool access to a dedicated service account using service account impersonation.
Filter requests using the unique `sub` claim issued by plugin identity tokens so the GCP Auth engine can
impersonate the service account. `sub` claims have the form: `plugin-identity:<NAMESPACE>:auth:<GCP_AUTH_MOUNT_ACCESSOR>`.

1. Configure the GCP auth engine with the OIDC audience value and service account
email.

> ```shell-session
> $ vault write auth/gcp/config \
>     identity_token_audience="//iam.googleapis.com/projects/410449834127/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/vault-gcp-auth-43777a63/providers/vault-gcp-auth-wif-provider" \
>     service_account_email="vault-plugin-wif-auth@hc-b712f250b4e04cacbadd258a90b.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
> ```

Reviewer 2: Adding indentation to align the code block with its instruction:

````suggestion
  ```shell-session
  $ vault write auth/gcp/config \
      identity_token_audience="//iam.googleapis.com/projects/410449834127/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/vault-gcp-auth-43777a63/providers/vault-gcp-auth-wif-provider" \
      service_account_email="vault-plugin-wif-auth@hc-b712f250b4e04cacbadd258a90b.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
  ```
````
